Now if you find using those keys for the messages that you have to translate a little bit inconvenient
because you can't remember what actually should be shown in this very place where for example you are
using defaults as the messages in your language.
You probably would like to know what this message would actually be.
So when this file messages grows like the example you've seen here in validation you might not really
remember what actually would be the message.
So fortunately there is another way much simpler to story or translations in Lavell and it is to use
J some files.
So how to do that.
So inside your luck folder you will create adjacent file with the short name of the language.
And Jason extension.
So this would have a typical Jason structure.
And now what you can do is the key can be exact text to be translated like Welcome to lot of all and
the value should be the translation in a language
something like this.
Now let's create also this file for Spanish so e as Jason copy the contents from initial English one
and also let's.
Well the language is in Spanish.
So what we have is being a window a lot of El
so let's move this translation to Spanish.
OK.
Now what you can do is you can very simply just use this double underscore and here immediately paste
the text that you want translated.
So this would be welcome to a lot of El
so let's say that we are using Jason here so it will be clear.
Now save the changes and let's take a look.
Using Jason Benny Randle.
A lot of.
So this is in Spanish so that might be much simpler or much clearer to you to keep translations in this
format so you will just put that on the Jason File and the key would be the actual message that would
be that has to be translated and then you can just add this to your files and then it will be translated
to let's say Spanish or German.
And the important thing is that you can keep those files together so you can use the Jason files and
those BHP files together.
So it's up to your preference sometimes when you use some external packages they might force you to
use BHP and store everything.
Ask BHP are raised and that's fine.
You can also keep some messages for example some complicated wear or long messages like messages for
e-mails where you have a lot of text.
You might prefer to just keep them using short key like welcome message in e-mail which might even have
like free paragraphs or something and then for the shorter ones or something that can be put to your
template you can just put that to the Jason File.
Now if you wonder how do you pass any additional parameters using Jason files it's all so simple so
let's add something like Hello name and in English this would be Hello.
Name Now let's move that to Spanish
or LA Ola.
Now mind that if you do not know that in Jason everything is surrounded by this curly braces.
Jason can also have a raise but we won't need them here.
But the text inside Jason fires have to have double quotes.
So if you need to use double quotes in your translation you have to escape it like that.
You cannot use a single pause in Jason.
I know it might be obvious to some of you guys but for others it might not be.
Now let's try this example.
Now how do you pass parameters well exactly the same.
But what we have to do is you have to type the text including the parameters so hello naming this case
and then inside the array you will actually pass the parameter needed.
So let's try it like that
and the second example using Jason and passing the name parameter which you can see here
apparently this didn't work because we are.
Yes.
So the key was wrong in Spanish.
So the key has to be the same as in the original language.
So the one that you will use in templates.
So since I'm using hello here then.
Well of course the key for Spanish has to be in English to only the value is actually in Spanish.
But well if you're a mother a language is Spanish you can also use keys us in Spanish.
That's perfectly fine.
Doesn't have to be in English.
I would say the changes and now it's correct.
So all are built.
So we will use both of those methods.
So we'll also use this BHP files and then we'll also use Jason's for most of our translations.
So let's actually move to the next lecture and do something more interesting.